what we try to do is we try to
understand things random things that
depend on space and time so take a cup
of tea pour some milk into it and stir
it around and well so now you're going
to see some random pattern of the milk
in your tea and you can ask and the milk
is going to mix that's after a while the
milk is just going to be evenly spread
in your cup of tea could ask yourself
how fast how long does that take right
so can you really show that it mixes
around very well and that there's no way
that you can recover you know
information about how you actually
poured the milk in if you wait for long
enough and would that be a case of
almost like every time you do it you're
going to get a different always get
something different right can you come
you can't expect to just predict exactly
what you're going to see because you
will see something different every time
it will depend on how exactly you pour
it in and what exactly that's where and
there's absolutely no way you can until
that's where you use randomness to model
this and how would we even begin to
model randomness okay so things are
random so you cannot say which outcome
you'll see but you can say which outcome
would be more likely than which other
outcome right so you can see well most
of the time you would see something like
this and it's pretty unlikely I don't
see something else and then you can
quantify what you mean by pretty
unlikely you toss the corner you toss a
coin ten times you say how many heads do
you see of course I can't tell you in
advance how many heads you'll see but I
can tell you that it's more likely that
you'll see five rather than two so I was
going to mention the coin example
because I think the fact that there are
two outcomes makes it relatively easy to
think right well it's probably a 50/50
chance but with something like pouring
milk into a tea and what part of does
that surely there are so almost like an
number of outcomes sure yeah but you
cannot yeah you can model things with
infinite number of outcomes like for
example if you you just say pick any
number between 0 & 1
there are infinitely many numbers
between 0 & 1
we can still make mathematical sense of
what it means to pick them with equal
probability so to speak even though
there's infinitely many of them suffice
each one of them will be picked with
zero probability and is this related to
your the work that you did to be worried
with your Fields Medal 2014
yes it's related to that to some extent
yes I mean I imagine it was of course a
great privilege to have your what
recognise that sort of you know one of
the top levels that you recognition you
can receive as a mathematician when you
I guess excited or coming or is it just
out of the blue or well you get told six
months before but before before I guess
was it a phone call maybe before you
were told then did you have an idea on
people mention it was it we you just
sort of so concentrated on just doing
your math step through this hats on
people asking me people mentioned it
dozen other people whose was just as
good yeah as much we tend to be very
humble so yeah